This is a frequent rooted subtree mining tool.
Implemented by Pascal Welke starting in 2018.

This program computes and outputs frequent *rooted* subtrees and feature
representations of the mined graphs. 

** 
 Different embedding operators might interpret the database in different 
 ways! Please read this documentation carefully! 
**

usage: ./lwg [options] [FILE]

If no FILE argument is given or FILE is - the program reads from stdin.
It always prints to stdout (unless specified by parameters) and 
stderr (statistics).


Options:
-h:           print this possibly helpful information.

-t THRESHOLD: Minimum absolute support threshold in the graph database

-p SIZE:      Maximum size (number of vertices) of patterns returned

-o FILE:      output the frequent subtrees in this file

-f FILE:      output the feature information in this file

-i VALUE:     Some embedding operators require a parameter that might be
              a float between 0.0 and 1.0 or an integer >=1, depending 
              on the operator.
              
-r VALUE:     Initialize the random number generator with seed VALUE. If
              not specified, random generator is seeded according to 
              current time.


-m METHOD:    Choose mining method among
              
              bfs: (default) mine in a levelwise fashion (like apriori). 
                 This results in better pruning behavior, but large memory 
                 footprint
      

-e OPERATOR:  Select the algorithm to decide whether a tree pattern 
              matches a transaction graph.
              Choose embedding operator among the following:

         == EXACT TREE EMBEDDING OPERATORS ==
           These operators result in the full set of frequent 
           rooted subtrees being output by this mining algorithm.
         
           rootedTrees: (default) classical subtree isomorphism algorithm.
             A pattern matches a graph, if it is rooted subgraph isomorphic 
             to it. That is, the transactions are interpreted as being rooted
             at their first vertex (in the graph database file format) and the 
             image of the root of the pattern must be the vertex in the image 
             of the pattern with the smallest distance to the root of the 
             transaction. 
             * Works only for forest transaction databases. *

             The database is expected to contain tree transactions that are 
             interpreted as being rooted at the first vertex. That is, the 
             database may contain undirected trees as expected by the lwg
             executable, but assumes that these trees are rooted at their 
             vertex 1. 
              
              
         == PROBABILISTIC TREE EMBEDDING OPERATORS ==
           These operators result in a subset of the frequent rooted
           subtrees being output by this mining algorithm
           
           rootedHops: Use the HOPS embedding operator to find frequent rooted
           subtrees in databases of directed graphs. You can set the number of
           samples to be taken by HOPS by the -i INT flag.
           The database (!DIFFERENT TO BASICALLY EVERYWHERE ELSE!) is 
           interpreted as a database of directed graphs. That is, if vertices 
           u and v are connected back and forth, both edges must be recorded 
           separately in the graph database file and the number of edges in 
           the header of the graphs must be accordingly changed to be the 
           number of directed edges. 

             
         == STRANGE EMBEDDING OPERATORS ==
           These operators do various stuff. The first two are 
           stronger than subgraph isomorphism, requiring possibly
           more than one embedding into a transaction graph to
           match the graph. The third just enumerates all trees
           up to isomorphism that can be created from the vertex 
           and edge labels in the database.
                          
           rootedTreeEnumeration: Enumerate all trees up to isomorphism which 
             can be generated from frequent vertices and edges in the
             input databases.
         

== NOTES ==
This is a rather quick adaption of a codebase that was built for undirected 
graphs. Hence, it is not as efficient as it could be and has some funny 
quirks. An incomplete list follows now:

- When reporting the number of frequent edges for the rootedTrees embedding
  operator, in the log stream (currently stderr) the number of frequent edges 
  might differ from the number of frequent patterns of size 2.
  This is due to the case that init step of the mining considers undirected 
  edges. However, whenever a directed labeled edge is frequent, so is the 
  underlying undirected edge.
 
