This is a Levelwise Mining Algorithm for TreePatterns
implemented by Pascal Welke 2013, 2015

The algorithm expects a file in the format produced by the tree sampler
ts and outputs three files with different suffixes:
    FILE.patterns: contains canonical string representations of the 
                   frequent tree patterns found by the algorithm
    FILE.counts:   contains pairs of values: a pattern id and its
                   frequency in the input, as evaluated by the 
                   OPERATOR
    FILE.features: contains pairs of values: a graph id and a pattern id
                   indicating that the pattern matches the graph

usage: lwm [ARGS] FILE
    
    FILE: (required) use FILE as tree database

    -t THRESHOLD: absolute frequency threshold for subtree patterns
                  (e.g. 32 if a pattern has to occur in at least 32
                  transactions to be frequent) (default 1000)

    -e OPERATOR:  embedding operator used for frequent subtree mining.
            existence:  A subtree T matches a transaction graph G if there
                        is at least one tree H in the set representing G 
                        such that T is subgraph isomorphic to H. (default)
            importance: A subtree T matches a transaction graph G if T is
                        subgraph isomorphic to more than a FRACTION-fraction 
                        of all trees representing G. FRACTION is specified by
                        flag -i and defaults to 0.3.
                        FRACTION = 0.0 is equivalent to existence and 
                        FRACTION = 1.0 will be treated specially such that T
                        must be subgraph isomorphic to all spanning trees 
                        representing G.

    -l OPERATOR: listing operator used for frequent substructure mining
            trees:        list frequent subtrees (default)
            aprioriTrees: same as above, but use standard apriori pruning
            paths:        list frequent subpaths
        
    -i FRACTION: relative fraction of spanning trees of a graph s.t.
                 a subtree S is considered a match. I.e. S is subgraph 
                 of more than F*X trees given X trees for a graph. Must
                 be a float between 0 and 1. (default 0.0, aka. existence)
         
    -p SIZE:  maximum number of edges in frequent patterns (default 20). 
              I.e. mining will stop after P levels.

    -o PREFIX: Specify a common prefix for the output files of the program.
               By default, the name of the input file is used.
        
    -c:  don't mine frequent subtrees, but return the cardinality of each tree 
               set in the input file.
    -v:  display some process information during mining
    -h:  display this help
    